you
this lecture is about how to mine text
data with the social network as contacts
in this lecture we're going to continue
discussing contextual text mining in
particular wouldn't look at the the
social network of authors of texts as
context so first some motivation for
using network context for analysis of
text the contacts rafa text article can
form a network for example the authors
of research articles might form a
collaboration network or authors of
social media content might also form
social networks for example in Twitter
people might follow each other or in
facebook some people might claim as
friends of others etc so such context
connects the content of the others
similarly locations associated with text
chaos will be connected to form joke or
African network but in general you can
imagine the metadata of the text data
can form some kind of network if they
have some relations now there is some
benefit in joint and I analyzing text
the hamlets so your network context or
network context in general and that's
because we can use networker to impose
some constraints on topics text so for
example it's reasonable to assume that
authors connected in collaboration
network tear to write about the similar
topics so such heuristic can be used to
guide us in analyzing topics texture
also can help characterize the content
associated with each sub network and
this is to say that both kinds of data
the network and text can help each other
so for example the difference in
opinions expressed in two sub networks
let's say two social networks can be
revealed by doing this kind of joint
analysis so here we are going to briefly
introduce a a model called a network
supervised the topic model and this in
this slide we are going to give some
general ideas and then in the next slide
will give some more details but in
general in this part of the course we
don't have enough time to cover these
frontier topics in detail but we provide
references that will allow you to to
read more about the topic to know the
details but it should see be useful to
know that general ideas and to know what
they can do to know when you might be
able to use them so the general idea of
network supervises talking model
modeling is the following let's start
with viewing the the regular topic
models like a PSA or idea lda as solving
an optimization problem of course in
this case the optimization objective
function is the likelihood function so
we often use maximum likelihood
estimator to obtain the parameters and
these parameters would give us useful
information that we want to obtain from
text data for example topics so we want
to maximize the probability of texts
that are given the parameters generate
denoted by number here now the main idea
of incorporating network is to say the
attitude to think about the constraints
that can be imposed based on the network
in general that idea is to use the
network to impose some constraints on
the model parameters lambda here for
example the text that achieves in the
nodes of the network can be assumed to
cover similar topics indeed in many
cases
tend to to cover similar topics we so we
may be able to smooth the top the
distributions on the graph on the
network so that adjacent nodes we have
very similar targeted distributions so
you they will share a common
distribution on the topics or have just
the slight variations of the topical
distributions out of the coverage so
technically what we can do is simply to
add a network and use the regular izes
to the likelihood of objective function
assume here so instead of just
optimizing the probability of texts
there are given premise lamb nah we're
going to optimize another function f
this function combines the likelihood
with a wrecker eyes a function called
are here and the wrecker Iser is defined
on the parameters lemna and the network
it tells us basically what kind of
friend is our preferred from network
constrained perspective so you can easy
to see this is in effect implementing
the idea of imposing and pry on the
model parameters only that will not
necessary having a problem list model
but the idea is the same we're going to
combine the two in one single objective
function so the advantage of this idea
is that it's quite a general here the
top model can be any generative model
for text but it doesn't have to be
Pierre I say or I'll be able the current
topic models and similarly the network
can be also in a network any graph that
connects these text objects
this regularizer can also be in a
recognizer we can be flexible in
capturing different heuristics that we
want to capture and finally the function
f can also vary so there can be many
different ways to combine them so this
general idea is actually quite quite
powerful it offers a general approach to
combining these different types of data
in a single optimization framework and
this general idea clearly can be applied
for many problems but here in this paper
reference are here a particular
installation a Coronet prsa was started
in this case it's just the exchanging of
prsa to incorporate in some simple
constraint imposed by network and the
prior here is the neighbors on the
network must have a similar topic
distribution they must cover similar
topics in similar ways and that's
basically what it says in English so
technically we just have a modified
objective function here let's define on
both the text connection c and the
network graph g here and if you look at
this formula and you have to recognize
some pot fairly familiar because they
are they should be fairly familiar to
you by now right so can you recognize
which part is the likelihood for the
text data given by a pocket mode well if
you look at it that you will see this
part is precisely the prsa log
likelihood that we want to maximize when
we estimate the parameters for prsa
alone but the second equation shows some
additional constraints on the parameters
and in particular we'll see here it's to
measure the difference between the topic
coverage at node you and know that V the
two adjacent nodes on the network we
want their distribution to be similar so
here we are computing the square of
their differences and we want to
minimize this difference and note
there's a negative sign in front of this
some this hose on here so this makes it
possible to find the parameters that are
that are both to maximize the P is a or
the likelihood that means the premise
will fit the data well and also to
respect that is constrained from the
network and this is the negative sign
that I just menu right because there's a
negative sign when we maximize this
objective function we are actually
minimize this second return here so if
we look further in this picture will see
there is also a weight of aged between U
and V here and that is based on our
network if we have a weight that says
well these two nodes are strong
collaborators of researchers these two
are strong connections between two
people in a social network and then they
will have a high weight then that means
it will be more important that to make
sure that they are topic coverages are
similar and that's basically what it
says here and then finally use your pram
dilemma now here this is a new parameter
to control the inference of networked
constraint we can see easily if lambda
is set to zero we just go back to the
standard pasa but when them right said
to a larger value then we'll let the
network influence the estimated models
more so as you can see the effect here
is that we're going to do basically PRSA
but we're going to also try to make the
topic coverages on the two nodes that
are strong and connected to be similar
and we ensure their coverages are more
similar so here are some some sample
results from that paper and this slide
shows the regular result of using PRSA
and the data here is TV LP there are
people our graphic data about the
research
articles and the experiments have to do
is using for communities of applications
I our information material that means TM
stand for data mining ml for machine
learning and web there are four
communities of articles and we were
hoping to see that the takamine can help
us uncover these four communities but
from these simple topics that you are
seeing here that are generated by PRSA
and PRSA is unable to generate the four
communities that correspond to our
intuition the reason was because they
are all mixed together and there are
many words that are shared by these
communities so it's not that easy to use
the four topics to separate them if we
use more topics perhaps we'll have more
coherent topics but what's interesting
is that if we use the net piace where
the network the collaboration network in
this case of authors is used to impose
constraints and this in this case we
also use for topics but net PRSA would
give much more meaningful topics so here
we see that these topics correspond well
to the four communities the first place
information retrieval second is tarah my
knee third is machine learning and their
forces web so that separation was most
delayed because of the influence of
network where we leverage the
collaboration networking information
essentially the people that for mac
leveraging network would then be kind of
assumed to write about the similar
topics and that's why we can have more
coherent topics and if you just listen
to text data alone based on the
co-occurrences you want to get such a
coherent topics even though a topic
modern I que pasa or Lda also should be
able to pick up a co-occurring words so
in general the topics that they generate
represent words that co-worker with each
other but still they cannot generate the
Sachiko
the results as net P is a showing that
the network context is very useful here
now a similar model could have been also
used to characterize the content
associated with each sub network of
collaborations so a more general review
of text mining in the context of network
is retreat text as living in a rich
information network environment and that
means we can connect all the related
data together as a big Network and text
there are can be associated with a lot
of structures in the network for example
texted are can be associated with the
nodes of the network and that's
basically what we just discussed in the
net PRI say what but texted a dog can be
associated with the ages as well or past
or even sub networks and such way to
represent xterra in the baking run of
all the context information is very
powerful because it allows us to analyze
all the data are all information
together and so in general analysis of
the text there should be using the
entire network of information thats
related to the text data so here's one
just reading and this is the paper about
the net PRI say where you can find more
details about the model and how to
estimate such a molar
you